well US President Joe Biden is said to
be extremely concerned about Israel's
next phase of its war in Gaza quoting
two official sources the news website
axio says Biden warned Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that an
offensive in southern Gaza could worsen
the humanitarian crisis let's go to
William Lawrence he's professor of
international relations at the American
University and a former US Diplomat he
joins us now live from Washington DC so
I want to ask about these ongoing
negotiations we have two hours under two
hours now until that ceasefire is due to
expire one would expect that with the
experience of two rounds of negotiations
it would actually be easier to reach
some sort of agreement uh or or on an
expansion of of a deal yet that doesn't
seem to be the
case no it's the opposite for a couple
of reasons one is that over already 40%
of the hostages have been released by
all the the best accounts uh and now
we're getting into the trickier cases
probably some injured hostages men IDF
soldiers people not held by Hamas uh and
officially the um truths already expired
the the Israelis uh extended it from
Midnight to 7 a.m. uh is Israel
Palestine time uh because uh they didn't
like the list they were given now I
didn't see anything in the deal as
articulated internationally uh that said
the is Israel gets to start the war
again because they don't like the 10
names um so I suspect there's uh
incredible amounts of pressure coming
from the Americans and others onto the
Israelis to say take the list and uh uh
some officials are saying uh there could
be an extension of one two three or four
days more but there's a point at which
the formulas change you may remember
some years ago one Israeli soldier was
traded for a thousand Palestinians a
soldier Israeli soldier held by Hamas
and uh I think the IDF soldiers as
Palestinian Representatives keep saying
are worth more uh and so there's a
bigger deal and a different deal that
needs to be made and and what do you
think that could be because I mean what
do you think could be the reasons for
this apparent reluctance of both Israel
and Hamas to uh prolong the
truce so Hamas is a bunch of conditions
that they've been articulating at
various times as well as have uh
Palestinian officials in the West Bank
but you know one of the big on since
they want to save the last hostages for
the end of the occupation as you know
right now uh Israel is occupying about
10% of gazen territory uh and has you
know duur control of the whole thing uh
and we're facing the the the possibility
of a bombing campaign in the South which
would really anger Biden given the the
way he's articulated red lines about how
Israel can't continue the bombardment
the way it did before uh and so you know
we're at this point where even some
Israelis are saying quietly or analysts
and stuff uh that they should just
release all of the Palestinian prisoners
uh over 2,000 of which are being held
without charges another 5,000 in
Palestinian jails for all of the rest of
the hostages I don't think that's
what'll happen I think it's going to be
more of this drip drip drip and
hopefully with a lot of uh qari
Ingenuity and American pressure um the
ceasefire can extend for as long as
possible as Biden said he prefers the US
Secretary of State in Israel he arrived
in the last few hours uh the US have
made it clear they do want the ceasefire
extended at least will it make it harder
for Israel to resume the
fighting absolutely I've never seen so
much disagreement between the Americans
andeles publicly and privately as with
this war and it's a relationship I've
been studying for decades uh and and so
the pressure is on uh and yet there's
this you know various types of bear
hugging going on saying look Israel
we're not doing this because we don't
like you we're doing this because it's
in your best interest to stop killing
people it's in your best interest to get
the hostages out etc etc uh it's in your
best interest not to create a bigger
more angrier Hamas by by creating a lot
more moders and and death and
destruction so uh the negotiations are
ongoing they're very comp at I think one
of the interesting wrinkles is part of
the discussions already what will the
after War Gaza look like because
Netanyahu laid out unreachable
objectives here and yet there's going to
be have to kind of a sort of rejiggering
of the objectives for Israel to exit at
some point declare some sort of Victory
and then whoever is governing in Gaza to
be accepted by all
parties really good to get your
perspective William Lawrence professor
of international relations at the
American University thank you